# ADAShark-Human-Performance
This repository contains scripts for comparing ADAShark's performance against human performance in shark identification. ADAShark is an AI model, and these scripts are used to evaluate its effectiveness in collaboration with human experts.

# Introduction
This experiment was designed to evaluate the synergy between human expertise and the AI model, Ada-ResNet-34-SPP, in the task of shark identification within images. The primary objective was to investigate the potential advantages of integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) to enhance human decision-making capabilities.

In this experiment, a subset of 150 out of 227 images was randomly selected from a diverse range of test datasets. These images encompassed a variety of scenarios, some containing sharks and others without (you can access the test dataset images at ADAShark-Human-Performance/data/). It's important to note that this paper does not introduce a new dataset for shark images; instead, it focuses on sharing the labeling tool for the purpose of reproducibility.

The experiment was divided into two distinct stages, with a brief time interval between them. In the initial stage, human annotators performed the task without AI assistance, evaluating their shark identification capabilities. In the subsequent stage, human annotators utilized the predictions generated by Ada-ResNet-34-SPP, exploring the potential enhancements AI can offer to human decision-making.

For both stages, a Python script served as the labeling tool, allowing for the collection and recording of human performance metrics. This experiment aimed to uncover the collaborative potential between human expertise and AI technology in the context of shark identification, fostering a deeper understanding of the synergies between the two. Detailed information about our study and our experiments can be found in our research paper: ## Link to be provided soon ###.

## Ada-ResNet-34-SPP predictions and Labels
In this experiment, labels, Ada-ResNet-34-SPP (ADA-Shark) inference confidences, and predictions are encoded in the filename as `data/XXX_label_predictionconfidence_prediction.png`, for example `ADAShark-Human-Performance/data/1917_9_1_100_1.png` is a shark (label 1) and was detected with 100% confidence (conf: 100, prediction 1) by Ada-ResNet-34-SPP.

## Usage

To run the comparison experiment, follow these steps:

1. Install the necessary dependencies by running:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Round 1 - NO AI Assistance (Baseline):**
   ```
   python3 main.py
   ```

3. **Round 2 - With AI Assistance (A Few Days After Round 1):**
   ```
   python3 main.py --assistance=True
   ```

In each round, you'll be presented with images. Look at each image for 2 seconds and provide your label when the image disappears. Use the following labels:

- `y` means one or multiple sharks are present in the image.
- `n` means no shark is present in the image.
- `stop` will stop the labeling process and return the metrics obtained so far.

## Output
The experiment generates output metrics in percentage format, stored in round_1_metrics.txt or round_2_metrics.txt. The format of the metrics is as follows:

```
DACNN Metrics: ('Accuracy: ', 76.0, ',Precision: ', 65.10000000000001, ',Recall: ', 90.3, ',F2 Score: ', 83.8)
Human Metrics: ('Accuracy: ', 92.7, ',Precision: ', 93.2, ',Recall: ', 88.7, ',F2 Score: ', 89.60000000000001)
```

## Acknowledgments

The authors would like to sincerely and deeply thank the following organizations for their invaluable collaboration and support in conducting this study: Boston University, Centre Securité Requin (CSR), Fetch, Institut de Recherche et de Développement
This study would not have been possible without the contributions and collaboration of these esteemed institutions.

## Authors

The following individuals contributed to this study:

- [MARVIN MARTIN](https://github.com/MarvinMartin24), Boston University, United States 
- [ETIENNE MEUNIER](https://github.com/Etienne-Meunier), Serpico, France
- PIERRE MOREAU, MET/Computer Science, Boston University, United States
- JEAN GADENNE, Centre Sécurité Requin, France
- JULIEN DAUTEL, Fetch Engineering, France
- FÉLICIEN CATHERIN, Félicien Catherin EI, France
- [EUGENE PINSKY](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=b90sclMAAAAJ&hl=en), Boston University, Metropolitan College, United States
- [REZA RAWASSIZADEH](https://sites.google.com/view/rezar), Boston University, United States
